One main challenge for FET is how to exploit complex label dependencies in the large-scale label set. Previous studies typically use predefined label hierarchy and co-occurrence structures estimated from data to enhance the models. To this end, Ren et al. (2016a); Xu and Barbosa (2018); Wu et al. (2019); Chen et al. (2020) design new loss function to exploit label hierarchies. Abhishek et al. (2017) enhance the label representation by sharing parameters. Shimaoka et al. (2017); Murty et al. (2018); López and Strube (2020) embed labels into a highdimension or a new space. And the studies exploit co-occurrence structures including limiting the label range during label set prediction (Rabinovich and Klein, 2017), enriching the label representation by introducing associated labels (Xiong et al. 2019), or requiring latent label representation to reconstruct the co-occurrence structure (Lin and Ji, 2019). However, these methods require predefined label structures or statistics from training data, and therefore is difficult to be extended to new entity types or domains. The ultra fine-grained label set also leads to data bottleneck and the long tail problem. In recent years, some previous approaches try to tackle this problem by introducing zero/few-shot learning methods (Ma et al., 2016; Huang et al., 2016; Zhou et al., 2018; Yuan and Downey, 2018; Obeidat et al., 2019; Zhang et al., 2020b; Ren et al., 2020), or using data augmentation with denosing strategies (Ren et al., 2016b; Onoe and Durrett, 2019; Zhang et al., 2020a; Ali et al., 2020) or utilizing external knowledge (Corro et al., 2015; Dai et al., 2019) to introduce more external knowledge. In this paper, we propose Label Reasoning Network, which is significantly different from previous methods because 1) by introducing deductive reasoning, LRN can capture extrinsic dependencies between labels in an end-to-end manner without predefined structures; 2) by introducing inductive reasoning, LRN can leverage intrinsic dependencies to predict long tail labels; 3) Through the sequenceto-set framework, LRN can consider two kinds of label dependencies simultaneously to jointly reason frequent and long tail labels